# Cafe-success-analysis-using-ML
Abstract:
I worked as an Intern at a cafe called “Café Coffee Day” which was suffering losses after COVID. Ever since I was a kid, I had been visiting the same cafe with my dad and felt deeply connected to it. I was hurt to see their losses and the smiles of the employees diminish, as they witnessed more tables going empty.

Café Coffee Day (CCD), a beloved destination for coffee enthusiasts, was facing a slump in sales. I, a regular CCD visitor, decided to help reverse this trend. As a frequent CCD visitor, I noticed changes in the café's dynamics. To understand the issues better, while I would take orders, serve, clean, I would also collect customer feedback. Google reviews didn't suffice, so I placed feedback QR codes at CCD locations, amassing around 2,000 reviews. Months went by and while the staff was convinced that this would end up being just a fun activity, my dedication held out hope. After 3 months of flipping through my notes at least a million times, lots of research and utter confusion, I prepared a Sentiment Analysis Project to identify the areas of improvement. Analyzing the data collected, I pinpointed four key factors impacting CCD: responsiveness to negative feedback, service quality, ambience, and timeliness. Armed with these insights, I collaborated with local CCDs, where we implemented changes that improved customer experiences. But my mission didn't end there. I also looked into why other CCD outlets were struggling. My project aimed to identify unique issues and provide recommendations for their revival. Customer feedback is incredibly important for a business, especially a cafe. This project includes a Sentiment Analysis model employing Machine Learning concepts, which analyzes customer reviews obtained through surveys, and online food delivery platforms, to present scopes for improvement at the cafe, ultimately increasing sales and customer satisfaction. It also empowers the cafe staff with valuable and precise decision making resources for targeted improvement and decrease in negative reviews.

Introduction:
Customer reviews provide a significant insight into the shortcomings of a cafe, especially any business in the hospitality industry. Reviews play a pivotal role in determining the success of a cafe. Hence, using their potential in a data- driven analysis provides support to a cafe for success.
Built out of Arayna, a high-schooler’s passion for Coffee and a sentimental connection nurtured since her childhood with “Cafe Coffee Day,” the model was built by her as an avid customer of the cafe to provide a direction for targeted improvement.
